And our next task is going to be setting up the functionality for toggling.
So if we head over to a finished project you'll notice that on a smaller screen size I can see only
the header and only once we click on a button then we can see the links.
And then again if we click on a button we can hide the links.
And this would be the case where first and foremost we're going to have to set up some C assessed weeks.
So first of all let's head over to a style C assess and we're not going to work within the media query
where we have nine hundred ninety two pixels.
Instead we're going to work on the smaller screen size map and first of all what I would like to do
is point out something where if I'm going to head over to my elements and then within the elements we're
going to find our NAV links.
We would like to get first of all the height of my nav links.
So let's navigate navigate.
Let's see now links.
So let me scroll up here on my page and you're going to notice that if in fact we hover over it we can
see that the width is four hundred nineteen.
And with of course is changing.
So if we're gonna make our screen size bigger or smaller with is going to change however what is not
going to change is in fact the height and you can see that the height in fact is two hundred and seventy
one.
So again if we have over the links notice here on the top and I cannot in fact zoom in over there but
you've probably noticed that the height is 271.
And if you can see on my screen you for sure can see on yours where it again gives you the width and
height.
And we're interested in that height value.
So what I would like to do right now is in fact just add a comment of height being to 71 I believe 43
or something like that again let me double check now links.
Yeah.
271 43.
That is the height that I'm interested.
So first of all what I would like to do in my C assess is hide these links by default.
So the moment when page loads.
I would like to hide links just like I have in the finished project and the way we do that is first
of all by targeting the links.
Remember that was the class in fact or NAV links and let's just say now links and first of all we're
going to say height is supposed to be zero.
That's step number one.
But even though we do that notice we still can technically see the links.
And in order to fix that we're gonna have to add a overflow of here like so.
So now the links are here.
Then once we have set up this height of 0 on our flow here and we're gonna have to come up with the
class that we're gonna be able to add dynamically just when we click on a button then this class is
going to be applied for my legs.
So I'm going to call this class show links.
And again if you are using the javascript code that I'm providing I would suggest in fact using the
same naming.
Okay.
And then this is the case where I'm going to setup height of whatever value we had over here.
So my one was 271 point forty three pixels.
And let me just show you right away manually how it's going to look like.
So if we're going to head over back to the NAV links I'm just showing you how it's gonna work without
javascript and let's say manually where we have the NAV links if we would head over there and add the
class that we just created our links are gonna be shown.
So if I'm going to type in show links you're going to notice that my links are in fact.
Now if I'm going remove this class well the links are going to be hidden.
So that is going to be our success.
Now one last thing that I would like to add is in fact transition because I would like this change to
happen over time not instantly because as you see in the final project we have this nice smooth effect
not just toggling in between now.
So the way we do that is again where we have the now links let's just add our transition let's say transition
and we have the variable for that main transition like so let's save that.
And now again let's start out by just doing it manually where we had a class of show links and that
said we have the links.
Now it's not going to show right now.
The nice smooth transition the worry it's going to show once we have the javascript.
But again just to show you this is in fact what we're going to do with JavaScript we're in fact going
to target this particular class.
But in fact we're going to use the idea but it is the same element and does matter and we're just going
to add this class dynamically using JavaScript not once we have our CSA setup.
Why don't we head over to app J.S. now instead of elements.
I'm going to focus on a console right now because I'm going to show you kind of a one of the neat ways
how we can always check whether our logic is going to work meaning her logic can still fail but I'm
going to show you the first step that usually lets people down.
OK.
Now within the app James why don't we first right now toggle.
So let's set up the comment.
Let's right now toggle and let's target two things.
We're going to target our toggle button and remember the I.D. was nav toggle.
And by the way I need to add here I found some reason I skipped on a hyphen and do need to have the
hyphen.
So the idea is nav hyphen toggle.
That's number one.
And then we're going to target the I.D. by the value of NAV links.
OK.
Both of these things.
So again let's set up some variables nav between is going to be document document.
Get element by I.D..
And like I said we're going to target our NAV toggle toggle.
That's number one.
And I'm going to copy and paste that and in fact we're going to write here links lengths and in this
case I am going to use the NAV links so let's right now link Sandy.
Like I said I would like to right away show you that we can use our console log function just to check
whether we are selecting correct elements because we can write all the logic in the world if our selectors
here in this case are wrong or are pointing to a different element.
While our logic is not gonna make any sense or at least is not going to work the way we intend to.
So first of all let's look for her variable not button and then let's look for a link whether we are
targeting the correct variables let's say that and you're going to notice that here I have the No.
Now that is the perfect example of something not working so I am looking for the NAV toggle but it is
not working.
Now the reason why it's not working because I changed my idea to NAV toggle but I didn't say that.
Now the moment I say that I do have the button so again that is the perfect example where you could
have some kind of error or your logic is not going to make sense.
If in fact you are not targeting the correct element now in my case I had pretty much an error because
I was looking for the idea that doesn't exist because I didn't save my indexation email and that way
again I could set up some kind of logic but nothing would have worked because in fact I wasn't targeting
the element now correctly we're targeting two things we're targeting our button and Norris chose here
our awesome button the toggle button and then we have the links so I know that OK.
At least initially everything is working fine since we are selecting both of the elements.
All right.
Now last we would like to have a event listener so bad event listener.
So we'd like to add event listener for the button.
So each and every time we're gonna click the button.
In fact we're gonna set up the functionality and the way it's going to work.
Since we have right now our element in our variable so let's right now button then we have our method
by the value of the event listener and then within the allowed event listener we have to pass two things.
What kind of event we're going to listen to.
And the second one the callback function one in fact that event takes place.
So I'm going to use the arrow function here and I'm going to say all right.
So once we click on this now button again we can always just start by console logging.
Hey you click the button I'm not save that.
And now every time we're gonna click the button notice and console.
Gonna have Hey you click the button.
Awesome.
So we know that again one step further and everything is working.
So the last thing is we just need to set up this class.
Remember this class of show links that we wanted to add dynamically.
So what I'm gonna do right now is I'm going to say you know what.
I also selected the links and I have an option of using class list property.
And on the clerks list I have the method of toggle.
And here I just specifically need to say well which class I would like to toggle and the class name
is show links.
Remember that is the class that we added in our show says so let me save this.
Now let me head over to a bigger browser window because I would just like to point out how we're gonna
be toggling in fact that particular class.
And you know what I'm gonna do it on a small screen size anyway.
So I guess it doesn't matter.
So now let me go back to a elements and now noticed something interesting about NAV links.
You can see that I have this div with the NAV links.
Now notice what happens once in fact we click on the button we have right now not only the now links
class but we also have a show links.
And that's the reason why my links are displayed.
Now once we click on it again dynamically we removed this class so same thing like we did before when
we manually added that show links to NAV links.
Now we're just doing it using javascript.
So once we click on it we add showings once we click one more time.
We just hide Alex so successfully guys we have added our toggle functionality to our project.